# Codebook for the Human Activity Recognition tidy datatset

The file is tidy_dataset.txt, generated by the script run_analysis.R

## Information about the variables

The first row in tidy_dataset.txt shows the column names, describing thevariables/features/columns in the data.
Each row gives averages of the variables retained from the original data set, grouped by subject and activity combination.

### Variables retained from original data set

Variables that contain either of the following words:


- mean(): mean
- std(): standard deviation

were retained as columns, and the test and training rows were combined.

### Subject and activity variables

The subject variable represents the person who underwent the measurements. Each person is identified with a number from 1 to 30.

The activity variable which ranges in value from 1 to 6 has been labelled with a 'label' column that encodes as a factor the 6 types of movement the subject performed:


1 = WALKING, 2 = WALKING_UPSTAIRS, 3 = WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, 4 = SITTING, 5 = STANDING, 6 = LAYING

### The tidy dataset contains 180 rows that were grouped by activity performed and subject (person), 66 variable/feature columns, and a subject and activity column.

Given the small number (6) of activities and the relatively large sixe of the measurements dataset (about 10,000), the activity column was transformed into a factor.

The rows represent the average per group represented by an activity and a subject, with 68 columns (66 variable columns, a column for activity and a column for subject.

